SQL
Q1 and Q2 have one or more correct answer. Choose all the correct option to answer your question. 
1. Which of the following is/are DDL commands in SQL? 
A) Create B) Update 
C) Delete D) ALTER 
Ans: (A) Create, (D) ALTER

2. Which of the following is/are DML commands in SQL? 
A) Update B) Delete 
C) Select D) Drop 
Ans: (A) Update, (B) Delete , (C) Select 

Q3 to Q10 have only one correct answer. Choose the correct option to answer your question. 
3. Full form of SQL is: 
A) Strut querying language B) Structured Query Language 
C) Simple Query Language D) None of them 
Ans: (B) Structured Query Language 

4. Full form of DDL is: 
A) Descriptive Designed Language B) Data Definition Language 
C) Data Descriptive Language D) None of the above. 
Ans: (B) Data Definition Language

5. DML is: 
A) Data Manipulation Language B) Data Management Language 
C) Data Modeling Language D) None of these 
Ans: Data Manipulation Language

6. Which of the following statements can be used to create a table with column B int type and C float type? 
A) Table A (B int, C float) B) Create A (b int, C float) 
C) Create Table A (B int, C float) D) All of them 
Ans: (C) Create Table A (B int, C float)

7. Which of the following statements can be used to add a column D (float type) to the table A created above? 
A) Table A ( D float) B) Alter Table A ADD COLUMN D float 
C) Table A( B int, C float, D float) D) None of them 
Ans: (D) None of them (It actually is: Alter Table A ADD D float)

8. Which of the following statements can be used to drop the column added in the above question? 
A) Table A Drop D B) Alter Table A Drop Column D 
C) Delete D from A D) None of them 
Ans: (B) Alter Table A Drop Column D

9. Which of the following statements can be used to change the data type (from float to int ) of the column D of table A created in above questions? 
A) Table A (D float int) B) Alter Table A Alter Column D int 
C) Alter Table A D float int D) Alter table A Column D float to int 
Ans: (B) Alter Table A  Modify Column D int (it should be modify instead of alter)

10. Suppose we want to make Column B of Table A as primary key of the table. By which of the following statements we can do it? 
A) Alter Table A Add Constraint Primary Key B B) Alter table (B primary key) 
C) Alter Table A Add Primary key B D) None of them 
Ans: (A) Alter Table A Add Constraint Primary Key B 

Q11 to Q15 are subjective answer type questions, Answer them briefly. 
11. What is data-warehouse? 
Ans: It is a large space where business (organization) related historical data is stored. The data here can be used for analytical purpose. Data can come into the data warehouse from multiple different sources. Data is actually pulled periodically from various places and can also be transformed to be stored here. 

12. What is the difference between OLTP VS OLAP? 
Ans: OLTP is Online Transaction Processing – It captures, stores and processes data from transactions in real time. 
In OLTP, the emphasis is more on data integrity. Also, it consists of normalized databases for this efficiency.
While OLAP is Online Analytical Processing uses complex queries to analyse aggregated historical data from OLTP systems. Here the emphasis is more on quick response time. For analysis, de-normalized databases are used.

13. What are the various characteristics of data-warehouse? 
Ans: the following are the characteristics of a data-warehouse
•	Time variant – data is generally organized based on time series – daily, weekly, monthly etc..
•	Non Volatile – data present here is historical data and will not change
•	Integrated – data warehouse integrates data from multiple data-sources

14. What is Star-Schema? 
Ans: The star schema is a style of data mart schema. It gets its name from its resemblance to the star shape with a fact table at its centre and dimension tables surrounding it 
The star schema is effecting in handling simpler queries

15. What do you mean by SETL? 
Ans: SETL is a general-purpose, high-level programming language based on the mathematical theory of sets.
SETL provides two basic aggregate data types: unordered sets, and sequences (the latter also called tuples)
Primitive operations in SETL include set membership, union, intersection, and power set construction, among others.
SETL is particularly good for software prototyping.

