Statistics– WORKSHEET 6

Q1 to Q9 have only one correct answer. Choose the correct option to answer your question.

1. Which of the following is the correct formula for total variation?
a) Total Variation = Residual Variation – Regression Variation
b) Total Variation = Residual Variation + Regression Variation
c) Total Variation = Residual Variation * Regression Variation
d) All of the mentioned
Ans: (b)

2. Collection of exchangeable binary outcomes for the same covariate data are called outcomes.
a) random
b) direct
c) binomial
d) none of the mentioned
Ans: (c)

3. How many outcomes are possible with bernoulli trial?
a) 2
b) 3
c) 4
d) None of the mentioned
Ans: (a)

4. If Ho is true and we reject it, then it is called:
(a) Type-I error
(b) Type-II error
(c) Standard error
(d) Sampling error
Ans: (a)

5. Level of significance is also called:
(a) Power of the test
(b) Size of the test
(c) Level of confidence
(d) Confidence coefficient
Ans: (c)

6. The chance of rejecting a true hypothesis decreases when sample size: 
(a) Decreases
(b) Increases
(c) Both of them (d) None of them
Ans:  (a)

7. Which of the following testing is concerned with making decisions using data?
(a) Probability
(b) Hypothesis
(c) Causal
(d) None of the mentioned
Ans: (b)

8. What is the purpose of multiple testing in statistical inference?
(a) Minimize errors
(b) Minimize false positives
(c) Minimize false negatives
(d) All of the mentioned
Ans: (d)

9. Normalized data is centered at and has unit equal to standard deviations of the original data.
(a) 0 (b) 5
(c) 1 (d) 10
Ans: (a)

Q10and Q15 are subjective answer type questions, Answer them in your own words briefly.
10. What Is Bayes' Theorem?
Ans: The Bayes theorem describes the probability of an event, based on prior knowledge of conditions that might be related to the event.

11. What is z-score?
Ans: Z-Score is also known as a standard score gives an idea of how far from the mean a data point is.

12. What is t-test?
Ans: A t-test is a type of inferential statistic used to determine if there is a significant difference between the means of two groups, which may be related in certain features. 

13. What is a percentile?
Ans: A percentile is a term used in statistics to express how a score compares to other scores in the same set.

14. What is ANOVA?
Ans: ANOVA is analysis of Variance.  An ANOVA test is a way to find out if survey or experiment results are significant. 

15. How can ANOVA help?
Ans: It helps you to figure out if you need to reject the null hypothesis or accept the alternate hypothesis.
