Statistics– WORKSHEET 4

Q1 to Q9 have only one correct answer. Choose the correct option to answer your question. 

1. Bernoulli random variables take (only) the values 1 and 0.
a) True b) False
Ans: (a)

2. Which of the following theorem states that the distribution of averages of iid variables, properly normalized, becomes that of a standard normal as the sample size increases? 
a) Central Limit Theorem b) Central Mean Theorem c) Centroid Limit Theorem d) All of the mentioned 
Ans: (d)

3. Which of the following is incorrect with respect to use of Poisson distribution? 
a) Modeling event/time data b) Modeling bounded count data c) Modeling contingency tables d) All of the mentioned 
Ans: (b)

4. Point out the correct statement. 
a) The exponent of a normally distributed random variables follows what is called the log-normal distribution 
b) Sums of normally distributed random variables are again normally distributed even if the variables are dependent 
c) The square of a standard normal random variable follows what is called chi-squared distribution 
d) All of the mentioned- 
Ans: (d)

5. __________ random variables are used to model rates. 
a) Empirical b) Binomial c) Poisson d) All of the mentioned 
Ans: (c)

6. Usually replacing the standard error by its estimated value does change the CLT. 
a) True b) False 
Ans: (b)

7. 1. Which of the following testing is concerned with making decisions using data? 
a) Probability b) Hypothesis c) Causal d) None of the mentioned 
Ans: (b)

8. 4. Normalized data are centered at ___ and have units equal to standard deviations of the original data. 
a) 0 b) 5 c) 1 d) 10
Ans:  (a)

9. Which of the following statement is incorrect with respect to outliers? 
a) Outliers can have varying degrees of influence 
b) Outliers can be the result of spurious or real processes 
c) Outliers cannot conform to the regression relationship 
d) None of the mentioned
Ans: (c)

Q10and Q15 are subjective answer type questions, Answer them in your own words briefly.
10. What do you understand by the term Normal Distribution?
Ans: It is a probability funtion which describes the distribution of variables. 
it is a symmetrical distribution, where most of the observations are clustered around the centre 

11. How do you handle missing data? What imputation techniques do you recommend?
Ans: Missing values can be imputed by using mean, median, mode

12. What is A/B testing
Ans: A/B testing is the act of running a simultaneous experiment between two or more variables

13. Is mean imputation of missing data acceptable practice?
Ans: yes. It is an acceptable practise

14. What is linear regression in statistics?
Ans: In statistics, linear regression is a linear approach to modeling the relationship between a scalar response and one or more explanatory variables. 
The case of one explanatory variable is called simple linear regression. For more than one explanatory variable, the process is called multiple linear regression

15. What are the various branches of statistics?
Ans: the branches of statistics are descriptive and Inferential  